The Project Gutenberg eBook of Old Songs, by Various

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Old Songs

Author: Various

Illustrators: Alfred Parsons
              Edwin Austin Abbey

Contributors: George Wither
              Edmond Spenser

Release Date: January 15, 2022 [eBook #67167]

Language: English

Produced by: Chuck Greif and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
             http://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images
             available at The Internet Archive)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK OLD SONGS ***





                               OLD SONGS

                            [Illustration]




                               OLD SONGS

                           WITH DRAWINGS BY
                            EDWIN A · ABBEY
                           & ALFRED PARSONS

               NEW YORK · HARPER & BROTHERS · PRINTERS &
             PUBLISHERS · FRANKLIN SQUARE · M DCCC LXXXIX

                         _COPYRIGHT, 1888, BY_

                         _HARPER & BROTHERS_.

                        _All Rights Reserved._




[Illustration: Contents]


                                                                  _PAGE_

_A Love Song_                                                        _1_

“_Why canst Thou not, as Others do_”                                _15_

“_With Jockey to the Fair_”                                         _19_

“_Sweet Nelly, my Heart’s Delight_”                                 _27_

“_What hap had I to Marry a Shrow_”                                 _33_

_The Leather Bottèl_                                                _37_

_Never Love Thee More_                                              _49_

“_Here’s to the Maiden of Bashful Fifteen_”                         _53_

_Barbara Allen_                                                     _57_

_Perigot and Cuddy’s Roundelay_                                     _67_

_Sally in Our Alley_                                                _73_

“_Early One Morning_”                                               _85_

_Kitty of Coleraine_                                                _89_

_Old King Cole_                                                     _97_

_Harvest Home_                                                     _101_

_Down in Cupid’s Garden_                                           _107_

_Phillada Flouts Me_                                               _111_

[Illustration]

[Illustration: A LOVE SONG]

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




_A LOVE SONG._

BY GEORGE WITHER.


    I lov’d a lasse, a faire one,
      As faire as e’er was seene;
    She was, indeed, a rare one,
      Another Sheba queen;

    But, foole, as then I was,
      I thought she lov’d me too;
    But, now, alasse! sh’as left me,
      _Falero, lero, loo_.

    Her haire, like gold, did glister;
      Each eye was like a starre;
    She did surpasse her sister,
      Which past all others farre:

[Illustration]

    She would me hony call:
      She’d, oh, she’d kisse me too!
    But, now, alasse! sh’as left me,
      _Falero, lero, loo_.

[Illustration]

    In summer-time, to Medley
      My love and I would goe--
    The boatmen there stood readie
      My love and I to rowe;
    For creame there would we call,
      For cakes, and for prunes too;
    But, now, alasse! sh’as left me,
      _Falero, lero, loo_.

[Illustration]

    Many a merry meeting
      My love and I have had:
    She was my onely sweeting;
      She made my heart full glad:
    The teares stood in her eyes,
      Like to the morning-dew;
    But, now, alasse! sh’as left me,
      _Falero, lero, loo_.

    And as abroad we walked,
      As lovers’ fashion is,
    Oft, as we sweetly talked,
      The sun would steale a kisse;
    The winde upon her lips
      Likewise most sweetly blew;
    But, now, alasse! sh’as left me,
      _Falero, lero, loo_.

    Her cheekes were like the cherrie,
      Her skin as white as snow;
    When she was blyth and merrie,
      She angel-like did show;
    Her wast exceeding small,
      The fives did fit her shoo;
    But, now, alasse! sh’as left me,
      _Falero, lero, loo_.

    In summer-time or winter
      She had her heart’s desire;
    I stil did scorne to stint her
      From sugar, sacke, or fire:
    The world went round about;
      No cares we ever knew;
    But, now, alasse! sh’as left me,
      _Falero, lero, loo_.

[Illustration]

    As we walked home together,
      At midnight, through the towne,
    To keepe away the weather,
      O’re her I’d cast my gowne;
    No colde my love should feele,
      Whate’er the heavens could doe;
    But, now, alasse! sh’as left me,
      _Falero, lero, loo_.

[Illustration]

    Like doves we would be billing,
      And clip and kisse so fast,
    Yet she would be unwilling
      That I should kisse the last:
    They’re Judas kisses now,
      Since that they prov’d untrue;
    For, now, alasse! sh’as left me,
      _Falero, lero, loo_.

[Illustration]

    To maidens’ vowes and swearing
      Henceforth no credit give;
    You may give them the hearing,
      But never them beleeve:
    They are as false as faire,
      Unconstant, fraile, untrue;
    For mine, alasse! hath left me,
      _Falero, lero, loo_.

    ’Twas I that paid for all things,
      ’Twas others dranke the wine;
    I cannot now recall things,
      Live but a foole to pine:
    ’Twas I that beat the bush,
      The bird to others flew;
    For she, alasse! hath left me,
      _Falero, lero, loo_.

    If ever that Dame Nature,
      For this false lover’s sake,
    Another pleasing creature
      Like unto her would make,
    Let her remember this,
      To make the other true;
    For this, alasse! hath left me,
      _Falero, lero, loo_.

    No riches, now, can raise me,
      No want make me despaire,
    No miserie amaze me,
      Nor yet for want I care:

[Illustration]

    I have lost a world it selfe.
      My earthly heaven, adue!
    Since she, alasse! hath left me,
      _Falero, lero, loo_.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

[Illustration: “Why canst Thou not as Others do”]




“_WHY CANST THOU NOT, AS OTHERS DO?_”


    Why canst thou not, as others do,
      Look on me with unwounding eyes?
    And yet look sweet, but yet not so,
      Smile, but not in killing wise;
    Arm not thy graces to confound;
    Only look, but do not wound.

    Why should mine eyes see more in you
      Than they can see in all the rest?
    For I can others’ beauties view,
      And not find my heart opprest.
    O be as others are to me,
    Or let me be more to thee.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

[Illustration: “_With Jockey to the Fair_”]




“_WITH JOCKEY TO THE FAIR._”


    Twas on the morn of sweet May-day,
    When nature painted all things gay--
    Taught birds to sing and lambs to play
          And deck’d the meadows fair--
    Young Jockey early in the morn
    Arose and tripped it o’er the lawn.
    His Sunday coat the youth put on;
    For Jenny had vowed away to run
          With Jockey to the fair.

    The cheerful parish bells had rung.
    With eager steps he trudg’d along;
    Sweet flowing garlands round him hung,
          Which shepherds us’d to wear.
    He tapp’d the window. “Hush, my dear!”
    Jenny, impatient, cried, “Who’s there?”
    “’Tis I, my love, and no one near.
    Step gently down, you’ve naught to fear
          With Jockey to the fair.”

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

    “My dad and mammy ’re fast asleep.
    My brother up and with the sheep.
    And will you still your promise keep,
          Which I have heard you swear?
    And will you ever constant prove?”
    “I will, by all the pow’rs above!
    And ne’er deceive my charming dove.
    Dispel those doubts, and haste, my love,
          With Jockey to the fair.”

    “Behold the ring!” the shepherd cried.
    “Will Jenny be my charming bride?
    Let Cupid be our happy guide,
          And Hymen meet us there.”
    Then Jockey did his vows renew--
    He would be constant, would be true.
    His word was pledged, away she flew,
    With cowslips sparkling with the dew,
          With Jockey to the fair.

    Soon did they meet a joyful throng.
    Their gay companions, blithe and young,
    Each joins the dance, each joins the song
          To hail the happy pair.
    What two were e’er so fond as they?
    All bless the kind propitious day--
    The smiling morn, the blooming May,
    When lovely Jenny ran away
          With Jockey to the fair.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

[Illustration: “_Sweet Nelly my Heart’s Delight._”]

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




“_SWEET NELLY, MY HEART’S DELIGHT._”


    HE. Sweet Nelly, my heart’s delight,
          Be loving, and do not slight
                The proffer I make
                For modesty’s sake.
          I honor your beauty bright;
                For love I profess,
                I can do no less.
          Thou hast my favor won.
                And since I see
                Your modesty,
                I pray you agree,
                And fancy me,
          Though I’m but a farmer’s son.

    SHE. No; I am a lady gay;
          It is very well known I may
                Have men of renown
                In country or town.
          So, Roger, without delay
                Court Bridget, or Sue,
                Kate, Nancy, or Prue;
          Their loves will soon be won;
                But don’t you dare
                To speak me fair,
                As if I were
                At my last pray’r
          To marry a farmer’s son.

    HE. My father has riches in store,
          Two hundred a year and more,
                Besides sheep and cows,
                Carts, harrows, and ploughs
          His age is above threescore,
                And when he does die,
                Then merrily I
          Shall have what he has won.
                Both land and kine,
                All shall be thine,
                If thou’lt incline,
                And will be mine,
          And marry a farmer’s son.

    SHE. A fig for your cattle and corn!
          Your proffered love I scorn.
                ’Tis known very well
                My name it is Nell,
          And you’re but a bumpkin born.

[Illustration]

    HE. Well, since it is so,
                Away I will go,
          And I hope no harm is done.
                Farewell! adieu!
                I hope to woo
                As good as you,
                And win her too,
          Though I’m but a farmer’s son.

    SHE. Be not in such haste, quoth she;
          Perhaps we may still agree,
                For, man, I protest
                I was but in jest;
          Come, prithee, sit down by me.
                For thou art the man
                That verily can
          Win me if e’er I’m won.
                Both straight and tall,
                Genteel withal,
                Therefore I shall
                Be at your call
          To marry a farmer’s son.

    HE. Dear Nelly, believe me now,
          I solemnly swear and vow
                No lords in their lives
                Take pleasure in wives
          Like we that do drive the plough.
                Whatever we gain
                With labor or pain,
          We don’t after wantons run,
                As courtiers do.
                And I never knew
                A London beau
                That could outdo
          A country farmer’s son.

[Illustration: “What hap had I to marry a Shrow”]




“_WHAT HAP HAD I TO MARRY A SHROW!_”


    What hap had I to marry a shrow!
    For she hath given me many a blow,
    And how to please her, alack! I do not know.

    From morn to even her tongue ne’er lies;
    Sometimes she brawls, sometimes she cries;
    Yet I can scarce keep her talents from mine eyes.

    If I go abroad and late come in,
    “Sir Knave,” saith she, “where have you been?”
    And do I well or ill, she claps me on the skin.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

[Illustration: THE LEATHER BOTTÈL]




_THE LEATHER BOTTÈL._


    ’Twas God above that made all things,
          The heav’ns, the earth, and all therein,
          The ships that on the sea do swim
          To guard from foes that none come in;
    And let them all do what they can,
    ’Twas for one end--the use of man.
          So I wish in heav’n his soul may dwell
          That first found out the leather bottèl.

    Now, what do you say to these cans of wood?
    Oh no, in faith they cannot be good;
    For if the bearer fall by the way,
    Why, on the ground your liquor doth lay;
    But had it been in a leather bottèl,
    Although he had fallen all had been well.
          _So I wish in heav’n_, etc.

[Illustration]

    Then what do you say to these glasses fine?
    Oh, they shall have no praise of mine,
    For if you chance to touch the brim,
    Down falls the liquor and all therein;
    But had it been in a leather bottèl,
    And the stoppel in, all had been well.
          _So I wish in heav’n_, etc.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

    Then what do you say to these black pots three?
    If a man and his wife should not agree,
    Why, they’ll tug and pull till their liquor doth spill;
    In a leather bottèl they may tug their fill,
    And pull away till their hearts do ake,
    And yet their liquor no harm can take.
          _So I wish in heav’n_, etc.

[Illustration]

    Then what do you say to these flagons fine?
    Oh, they shall have no praise of mine,
    For when a Lord is about to dine,
    And sends them to be filled with wine,
    The man with the flagon doth run away,
    Because it is silver most gallant and gay.
          _So I wish in heav’n_, etc.

    A leather bottèl we know is good,
    Far better than glasses or cans of wood,
    For when a man’s at work in the field,
    Your glasses and pots no comfort will yield;
    But a good leather bottle standing by
    Will raise his spirits whenever he’s dry.
          _So I wish in heav’n_, etc.

    At noon, the haymakers sit them down,
    To drink from their bottles of ale nut-brown;
    In summer, too, when the weather is warm,
    A good bottle full will do them no harm.
    Then the lads and the lasses begin to tottle,
    But what would they do without this bottle?
          _So I wish in heav’n_, etc.

    There’s never a Lord, an Earl, or Knight,
    But in this bottle doth take delight;
    For when he’s hunting of the deer,
    He oft doth wish for a bottle of beer.
    Likewise the man that works in the wood,
    A bottle of beer will oft do him good.
          _So I wish in heav’n_, etc.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

    And when the bottle at last grows old,
    And will good liquor no longer hold,
    Out of the side you may take a clout,
    To mend your shoes when they’re worn out;
    Or take and hang it up on a pin,
    ’Twill serve to put hinges and odd things in.
          _So I wish in heav’n_, etc.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

[Illustration: _NEVER LOVE THEE MORE_]




_NEVER LOVE THEE MORE._


    My dear and only love, take heed
      How thou thyself expose
    By letting longing lovers feed
      Upon such looks as those.
    I’ll marble-wall thee round about,
      And build without a door;
    But if thy heart do once break out,
      I’ll never love thee more.

    Let not their oaths, by volleys shot,
      Make any breach at all,
    Nor smoothness of their language plot
      A way to scale the wall;
    No balls of wildfire love consume
      The shrine which I adore;
    For if such smoke about it fume,
      I’ll never love thee more.

[Illustration]

    Then if by fraud or by consent
      To ruin thou shouldst come,
    I’ll sound no trouble as of wont,
      Nor march by beat of drum,
    But fold my arms, like ensigns, up,
      Thy falsehood to deplore,
    And after such a bitter cup
      I’ll never love thee more.

[Illustration]

[Illustration: “Here’s to the Maiden of Bashful Fifteen”]




“_HERE’S TO THE MAIDEN OF BASHFUL FIFTEEN._”


    Here’s to the maiden of bashful fifteen,
      Now to the widow of fifty;
    Here’s to the flaunting extravagant quean,
      And here’s to the housewife that’s thrifty.
        Let the toast pass,
        Drink to the lass;
        I warrant she’ll prove
        An excuse for the glass.

    Here’s to the charmer whose dimples we prize,
      Now to the damsel with none, sir;
    Here’s to the girl with a pair of blue eyes,
      And now to the nymph with but one, sir.
              _Let the toast_, etc.

    Here’s to the maid with a bosom of snow,
      Now to her that’s as brown as a berry;
    Here’s to the wife with a face full of woe,
      And now to the damsel that’s merry.
              _Let the toast_, etc.

[Illustration]

    For let her be clumsy or let her be slim,
      Young or ancient, I care not a feather;
    So fill up a bumper, nay, fill to the brim,
      And let us e’en toast ’em together.
              _Let the toast_, etc.

[Illustration]

[Illustration: BARBARA ALLEN]

[Illustration]




_BARBARA ALLEN._


    All in the merry Month of May,
      when green leaves they was springing,
    This young man on his Death-bed lay,
      for the love of _Barbara Allen_.

    He sent his man unto her then,
      in the Town where she was dwelling:
    You must come to my Master dear,
      if your name be _Barbara Allen_.

    For Death is printed in his face,
      and Sorrow’s in him dwelling,
    And you must come to my Master dear,
      if your name is _Barbara Allen_.

    If Death be printed on his face,
      and Sorrow’s in him dwelling,
    Then little better shall he be
      for Bonny _Barbara Allen_.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

    So slowly, slowly she got up,
      and so slowly she came to him,
    And all she said when she came there,
      young Man, I think you are a dying.

    He turn’d his face unto her then:
      if you be _Barbara Allen_,
    My dear, said he, come pitty me,
      as on my Death-bed I am lying.

    If on your Death-bed you be lying,
      what is that to _Barbara Allen_?
    I cannot keep you from Death,
      so farewell, said _Barbara Allen_.

    He turn’d his face unto the Wall,
      and Death came creeping to him:
    Then adieu, adieu, and adieu to all,
      and adieu to _Barbara Allen_.

    And as she was walking on a day,
      she heard the Bell a Ringing,
    And it did seem to ring to her,
      unworthy _Barbara Allen_.

    She turn’d herself round about,
      and she spy’d the Corps a coming:
    Lay down, Lay down the Corps of Clay,
      that I may look upon him.

    And all the while she looked on,
      so loudly she was laughing;
    While all her Friends cry’d amain,
      unworthy _Barbara Allen_.

[Illustration]

    When he was dead & laid in Grave,
      then Death came creeping to she.
    O Mother! Mother! make my Bed,
      for his Death hath quite undone me.

[Illustration]

    A hard hearted Creature that I was,
      to slight one that loved me so dearly;
    I wish I had been more kinder to him,
      the time of his Life, when he was near me.

    So this Maid she then did dye,
      and desired to be buried by him,
    And repented herself before she dy’d
      that ever she did deny him.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

[Illustration: _Perigot & Cuddy’s Roundelay._]

[Illustration]




_PERIGOT AND CUDDY’S ROUNDELAY._

BY EDM. SPENSER.


    It fell upon a holy-eve
      (Heigho, holy-day!),
    When holy fathers wont to shrive
      (Now ’ginneth this roundelay),
    Sitting upon a hill so high
      (Heigho, the high hill!)
    The while my flock did feed thereby,
      The while the shepherd’s self did spill.

    I saw the bouncing Bellibone
      (Heigho, bonny-bell!)
    Tripping over the dale alone--
      She can trip it very well--
    Well decked in a frock of gray
      (Heigho, gray is great!)
    And in a kirtle of green say--
      The green is for maidens meet.

    A chaplet on her head she wore
      (Heigho, the chaplet!);
    Of sweet violets therein was store--
      She’s sweeter than the violet.

[Illustration]

    My sheep did leave their wonted food
      (Heigho, silly sheep!)
    And gazed on her as they were wood--
      Wood as he that did them keep.

    As the bonny lass passed by
      (Heigho, bonny lass!)
    She rolled at me with glancing eye
      As clear as the crystal glass.
    All as the sunny beam so bright
      (Heigho, the sunbeam!)
    Glanceth from Phœbus’ face forth-right,
      So love into my heart did stream.

    Or as the thunder cleaves the clouds
      (Heigho, the thunder!)
    Wherein the lightsome leaven shrouds,
      So cleaves my soul asunder;
    Or as dame Cynthia’s silver ray
      (Heigho, the moonlight!)
    Upon the glistening wave doth play,
      Such play is a piteous plight.

    The glance into my heart did glide
      (Heigho, the glide!),
    Therewith my soul was sharply gride.
      Such wounds some waxen wide;
    Hasting to wrench the arrow out
      (Heigho, Perigot!),
    I left the head in my heart-root:
      It was a desperate shot.

    Then it rankleth aye more and more
      (Heigho, the arrow!),
    Nor can I find salve for my sore--
      Love is a cureless sorrow.
    And though my bale with death I bought
      (Heigho, heavy cheer!)
    Yet should this lass not from my thought,
      So you may buy gold too dear.

    But whether in painful love I pine
      (Heigho, pinching pain!)
    Or thrive in wealth, she shall be mine.
      But if thou can her obtain,
    And if for graceless grief I die
      (Heigho, graceless grief!),
    Witness she slew me with her eye,
      Let thy folly be the preef (_sic_).

    And you that saw it, simple sheep
      (Heigho, the fair flock!),
    For prief thereof my death shall weep
      And moan with many a mock.
    So learn’d I love on a holy-eve
      (Heigho, holy-day!)
    That ever since my heart did grieve.
      Now endeth our roundelay.

[Illustration:

    _SALLY IN OUR ALLEY
    A SONG by
    H. CAREY_
]

[Illustration]




_SALLY IN OUR ALLEY._


    Of all the girls that are so smart
      There’s none like pretty Sally:
    She is the darling of my heart,
      And she lives in our alley.
    There is no lady in the land
      Is half so sweet as Sally:
    She is the darling of my heart,
      And she lives in our alley.

    Her father he makes cabbage-nets,
      And through the streets does cry ’em;
    Her mother she sells laces long
      To such as please to buy ’em;

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

    But sure such folks could ne’er beget
      So sweet a girl as Sally!
    She is the darling of my heart,
      And she lives in our alley.

    When she is by, I leave my work,
      I love her so sincerely;
    My master comes like any Turk,
      And bangs me most severely;

    But let him bang his bellyful,
      I’ll bear it all for Sally:
    She is the darling of my heart,
      And she lives in our alley.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

    Of all the days that’s in the week
      I dearly love but one day,
    And that’s the day that comes betwixt
      A Saturday and Monday;
    For then I’m drest all in my best
      To walk abroad with Sally:
    She is the darling of my heart,
      And she lives in our alley.

[Illustration]

    My master carries me to church,
      And often am I blamed
    Because I leave him in the lurch
      As soon as text is named;
    I leave the church in sermon-time
      And slink away to Sally:
    She is the darling of my heart,
      And she lives in our alley.

    When Christmas comes about again,
      Oh, then I shall have money;
    I’ll hoard it up, and box it all,
      I’ll give it to my honey:
    I would it were ten thousand pound,
      I’d give it all to Sally:
    She is the darling of my heart,
      And she lives in our alley.

[Illustration]

    My master and the neighbors all
      Make game of me and Sally,
    And, but for her, I’d better be
      A slave and row a galley;

[Illustration]

    But when my seven long years are out,
      Oh, then I’ll marry Sally!
    And then how happily we’ll live,
      But _not_ in our alley.

[Illustration]

[Illustration: “_EARLY ONE MORNING_”]




“_EARLY ONE MORNING._”


    Early one morning, just as the sun was rising,
      I heard a maid sing in the valley below:
    “Oh, don’t deceive me! oh, never leave me!
      How could you use a poor maiden so?

    “Oh, gay is the garland and fresh are the roses
      I’ve culled from the garden to bind up my brow.
    Oh, don’t deceive me! oh, do not leave me!
      How could you use a poor maiden so?

    “Remember the vows you made to your Mary;
      Remember the bow’r where you vowed to be true.
    Oh, don’t deceive me! oh, do not leave me!
      How could you use a poor maiden so?”

    Thus sang the poor maiden, her sorrows bewailing;
      Thus sang the poor maid in the valley below:
    “Oh, don’t deceive me! oh, never leave me!
      How could you use a poor maiden so?”

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

[Illustration: _Kitty of Coleraine_]

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




_KITTY OF COLERAINE._


    As beautiful Kitty one morning was tripping
      With a pitcher of milk from the fair of Coleraine,
    When she saw me she stumbled, the pitcher it tumbled,
      And all the sweet buttermilk water’d the plain.

    Oh, what shall I do now? ’Twas looking at you, now.
      Sure, sure, such a pitcher I’ll ne’er meet again.
    ’Twas the pride of my dairy. Oh, Barney M’Leary,
      You’re sent as a plague to the girls of Coleraine!

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

    I sat down beside her, and gently did chide her,
      That such a misfortune should give her such pain.
    A kiss then I gave her. Before I did leave her,
      She vow’d for such pleasure she’d break it again.

    ’Twas haymaking season. I can’t tell the reason--
      Misfortunes will never come single--that’s plain--
    For very soon after poor Kitty’s disaster,
      The devil a pitcher was whole in Coleraine.

[Illustration]

[Illustration: OLD KING COLE]




_OLD KING COLE._


    Old King Cole was a merry old soul,
              And a merry old soul was he;
              And he call’d for his pipe,
              And he call’d for his bowl,
              And he call’d for his fiddlers three.
    Then twedle, twedle, twedle, twedle, twedle went the fiddlers;
    Twedle, twedle, twedle, twedle, twedle, twedle twee.
              There’s none so rare as can compare
              To King Cole and his fiddlers three.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

[Illustration:

    HARVEST
    HOME
]




_HARVEST-HOME._


    Come, Roger and Nell;
      Come, Simkin and Bell;
    Each lad with his lass hither come,
      With singing and dancing,
        In pleasure advancing
        To celebrate harvest-home.
              ’Tis Ceres bids play
              And keep holiday
              To celebrate harvest-home.

    Our labor is o’er, and our barns in full store
      Now swell with rich gifts of the land.
    Let each man then take, for the prong and the rake,
      His can and his lass in his hand.
              ’Tis Ceres bids play
              And keep holiday
              To celebrate harvest-home.

    No courtiers can be so happy as we
      In innocent pastime and mirth,

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

    While thus we carouse with our sweetheart or spouse,
      And rejoice o’er the fruits of the earth.
              ’Tis Ceres bids play
              And keep holiday
              To celebrate harvest-home.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

[Illustration:




    DOWN IN
    CVPID’S
    GARDEN
]




“_’TWAS DOWN IN CUPID’S GARDEN._”


    ’Twas down in Cupid’s garden
      For pleasure I did go,
    To see the fairest flowers
      That in that garden grow.
    The first it was the jessamine,
      The lily, pink, and rose,
    And surely they’re the fairest flow’rs
      That in that garden grows!

    I’d not walked in that garden
      The part of half an hour,
    When there I saw two pretty maids
      Sitting under a shady bower.
    The first was lovely Nancy,
      So beautiful and fair;
    The other was a virgin
      Who did the laurel wear.

    I boldly stepped up to her,
      And unto her did say,
    Are you engaged to any young man?
      Do tell to me, I pray!

[Illustration]

    I’m not engaged to any young man,
      I solemnly do swear;
    I mean to live a virgin,
      And still the laurel wear.

    Then hand in hand together
      This lovely couple went;
    Resolved was the sailor boy
      To know her full intent--
    To know if he would slighted be
      When to her the truth he told.
    Oh no! oh no! oh no! she cried;
      I love a sailor bold.

[Illustration]




[Illustration:

    PHILLADA
    FLOUTS ME
]

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

_PHILLADA._


    Oh, what a pain is love!
      How shall I bear it?
    She will unconstant prove;
      I greatly fear it.
    She so torments my mind
      That my strength faileth,
    And wavers with the wind
      As a ship saileth.
    Please her the best I may,
    She loves still to gainsay:
    Alack and well-a-day!
      Phillada flouts me.

    All the fair yesterday
      She did pass by me;
    She looked another way
      And would not spy me.
    I woo’d her for to dine,
      But could not get her;
    Will had her to the wine--
      He might intreat her.
    With Daniel she did dance;
    On me she looked askance:
    Oh, thrice unhappy chance!
      Phillada flouts me.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

    Fair maid! be not so coy;
      Do not disdain me!
    I am my mother’s joy:
      Sweet! entertain me!
    She’ll give me when she dies
      All that is fitting:
    Her poultry and her bees,
      And her goose sitting,
    A pair of mattress beds,
    And a bag full of shreds:
    And yet, for all this guedes,
      Phillada flouts me.

[Illustration]

    She hath a clout of mine,
      Wrought with blue coventry,
    Which she keeps for a sign
      Of my fidelity;
    But, ’faith, if she flinch,
      She shall not wear it;
    To Tib, my t’other wench,
      I mean to bear it.
    And yet it grieves my heart
    So soon from her to part:
    Death strike me with his dart!
      Phillada flouts me.

[Illustration]

    Thou shalt eat crudded cream
      All the year lasting,
    And drink the crystal stream
      Pleasant in tasting,

[Illustration]

    Whig and whey whilst thou lust,
      And ramble-berries,
    Pie-lid and pastry crust,
      Pears, plums, and cherries;
    Thy raiment shall be thin,
    Made of a weevil’s skin--
    Yet all’s not worth a pin:
      Phillada flouts me.

    Fair maiden! have a care,
      And in time take me;
    I can have those as fair,
      If you forsake me:
    For Doll the dairy-maid
      Laughed at me lately,
    And wanton Winifred
      Favors me greatly.

[Illustration]

    One throws milk on my clothes;
    T’other plays with my nose:
    What wanting signs are those!
      Phillada flouts me.

    I cannot work nor sleep
      At all in season,
    Love wounds my heart so deep,
      Without all reason.
    I ’gin to pine away
      In my love’s shadow,
    Like as a fat beast may
      Penned in a meadow.
    I shall be dead, I fear,
    Within this thousand year:
    And all for that my dear
      Phillada flouts me.

[Illustration]

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK OLD SONGS ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
